[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: This pattern for
using functions to construct objects.
And I've got my constructor function,
I've passed in my initialization object,
I'm calling another constructor, which
allows me to inherit what that thing does.
And I'm gonna add stuff to that, or that
will be the object that I'm constructing.
I will create my member variables,
which are the things that my
methods will have access to.
That's where I'm gonna be
keeping all of the state,
all of the data that's within this object.
I will create my member methods, which are
just local functions within this scope,
and each of these will close over the
initialization value that we passed in,
or whatever that is.
I recommend an object,
over all of the other members and
over all of the other methods.
So that we don't ever use
this in this pattern.
And then anything which needs to be
public, I publish it by assigning it
to the outgoing object and when I'm done,
I return the outgoing object.
And also, have as many members as I want,
as many methods as I want.
I make as many of them public
as I need to, and then I'm done.
It's a really straightforward way of
making objects, it's very flexible.
There are lots and lots of variations
on this, but this is the basic pattern
that I recommend for using, for
constructing objects in JavaScript.
Now, next year when all of ES6 becomes
available, and there's some new syntax in
ES6, which can be applied toward this,
and also with an eye on making
our systems even more secure, I'm going
to revise the pattern to be like this.
So this is next year's pattern.
I'm gonna start with
a constructor object as before,
which will contain lots of good stuff,
which tells me how to make the object.
Then I'm gonna make my instance variables,
and I'm using some new syntax here.
First off, I'm using the let statement.
In this case, there's no advantage to
using let over var, but it makes the Java
guys happier, so I'm gonna try to use
let as we move to the new language.
And the curly braces around the variable
name, means something special here.
So what I'm doing is,
I'm creating a new variable called member,
and I'm going to initialize
it with spec.member.
So it's a shorthand for doing those sorts
of things, and I can put as many names in
the curly braces as I want,
separated by commas, and each of those
names will be initialized by a similarly
named property from that object.
So this doesn't let us do anything that
we couldn't do before, but it's some
convenient syntax for pulling values
out of the initialization object and
putting them into our local variables.
>> Speaker 2: When you say let (member) =
spec, now spec.member is initialized?
>> Douglas Crockford: It's
the initialization value for
the member variable.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
that statement means the same thing
as let (member) = spec.member
>> Speaker 2: Member equals
spec.member.
>> Douglas Crockford: Then,
I'm gonna use the new const statement.
In a similar way, I'm going to this
other constructor where I'm going to
get methods, which I'm gonna be using,
and I'm going to extract
the methods that I want to use and
put them into private variables.
And I'm doing that, because I anticipate
that this object could be frozen, and so
I don't want to be adding stuff to
it as I was in the previous model.
Because I don't want to break if someone
that I'm trying to inherit from
passes me as a frozen object.
This also solves what's sometimes
called the banana problem.
That there's a complaint
about object systems,
where you want to inherit a banana.
But you end up also inheriting
the gorilla that's holding the banana and
the jungle that the gorilla is and
you get all of this stuff and
all you wanted was this little thing.
So this allows us to do that we
can extract things that we want.
And because we're extracting things now,
we can call it as many of
these guys as we want.
So we can get to as many of these other
constructors and take all of their
goodness and pull it out into local
variables and we get all that goodness.
Then, again I'm going to
be making my methods, and
again my methods will close
over all of the stuff.
And again, my methods are not using this.
Then when I'm done,
I publish the public methods here.
The ones that I made or
the ones that I inherited.
And I'm taking advantage of new
object literal syntax here.
That if you have an object literal and
you just say a name and
you leave out the colon,
it's a shorthand for name call a name.
So this is short for
method called, method.
And that's short for other call an other.
Again, not essential.
But it's nice and it gives us a, this
starts to look more like a declaration
than like code, where I'm just getting
the list of things that I want to publish.
Then finally,
I'm going to freeze that object
because freezing gives us very good
security and reliability properties for
objects, which we can't get in
this language in any other way.
So when we look at
the evolution of programming.
In languages like C and Pascal,
we've got struct and records.
Tailored structures which let
you have names, properties.
And then an object
[INAUDIBLE] programming,
we took it a step further where
we could have functions or
methods which are related to those
structures which will act upon them.
And I think that was a really
important evolutionary step, but
it shouldn't have been the last step.
So I think JavaScript actually gives
us a way to go forward from this, so
that I'm now thinking that we have
two very distinct kinds of objects.
We have objects which just contain data,
only data and
objects contain only functions,
which are frozen.
And those objects are very strong, very
reliable that cannot be tampered with.
They provide the interface for
dealing with the objects,
which are containing the data.
And that way we can create good API's,
which can defend themselves.
Which can remain robust and in the face
of all the confusion that's happening
inside of our system.
>> Speaker 2: So how would you pair those
two things, the data, object again?
>> Douglas Crockford: I'm going to put
the data in the member variables.
>> Douglas Crockford: All
of the data goes in the member variables,
and
those could contain simple
values like numbers and strings.
They could contain objects.
>> Douglas Crockford: So any other
questions about that?
>> Speaker 2: I don't understand any of
this.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
we'll review it again this afternoon.
So what I want to do now.
Do we need a break or
are we ready to go on to the next problem?
>> Speaker 3: Can I just ask a question
[INAUDIBLE].
>> Douglas Crockford: Please.
>> Speaker 3: So you're
gonna use that pattern.
You'll have your function object, you'll
have your data object that you'll feed
your data into and you'll feed your
data object into the function object,
act on that function object creating
a new data object to then act on.
The next in the cheat of function objects
that are all functions which never change
are immutable but
they'll create new data sets.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right.
Each time we call this constructor,
we get a new thing and with it,
it's functions go.
It will close over,
whatever objects you need to work on.
>> Speaker 3: In itself and
it's data that you were to create, it is
all beautiful and it's going to give you
new information out of.
>> Douglas Crockford: The data is mutable
but only within the function scope,
you cannot mutate it from outside,
except through the box.
>> Speaker 3: So
freeze doesn't mean that you can
change its own if you add up
the functions.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right.
>> Speaker 3: [CROSSTALK] to give a new
input.
>> Douglas Crockford: Freeze is only on
the object containing the functions.
The functions themselves are still
free to act on anything with
a close.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
To just catch up to you.
>> Speaker 2: Could
you go back to the previous slide, please.
>> Speaker 2: And it could be five and
it could be.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, but
that's
>> Speaker 2: It could be anything you
want.
>> Douglas Crockford: It's anything
you want to pass to a constructor.
>> Speaker 2: I think I'm confused by
the fact that
>> Speaker 2: What
is the other constructor
do if creates a not yet
another object that.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right.
If provides a means of
inheriting something else.
This is how you would do
inheritance in this matter.
If you don't need to inherit
from something else, then
just start without being an empty object.
>> Speaker 2: Or could be some values that
you could assign?
>> Douglas Crockford: Whatever,
yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I
don't understand how this
is related to you, to work.
You congratulated us for
doing something five minutes ago that,
I've been doing that with a node for
a year.
And this still doesn't make any sense to,
I mean, this makes sense to me.
I don't understand the relationship,
what we are passing,
we are passing a function in-
>> Douglas Crockford: The relationship is,
this is only possible if you understand
how to use closure and function scope.
[SOUND] Which is something you can do now.
>> Speaker 2: All right.